Hi and welcome to this video on shared references and mutability.
Now this is something we've actually already seen before but I just want to formalize the definition
and just re-emphasize a few points about this.
So the term shed reference is the concept of two variables referencing the same object in memory.
In other word pointing to the same object having the same memory address.
So for example if we write a ten then we can create a shared reference to this object in memory.
So we have this object in memory at some memory address and points to it.
We can create another variable that points to the same memory address simply by writing B equals a.
Just keep in mind Python variables are memory references.
So when we say B equals a.
What we're actually saying is set the memory reference of be equal to the memory reference of a.
That's what that assignment is doing.
It's not copying values it's copying memory address references.
So B points to the same object in memory.
Now the same thing really happens when we define let's say this code here that's a bigger function my
func which takes a parameter of V.
Now your main code.
Suppose we write T equals 20.
Then t is appointed to some object in memory when we call my func T.
We're passing the reference of t in to this function.
And so in its scope it's going to have a variable v that will point to the same reference.
So then in the last video.
But that is another way of creating shared references so shared references exist all the time in our
code.
We usually have functions and we pass arguments into them so we end up with shared references.
Now the following may surprise you.
And again we've seen that before.
And we'll come back and take a look at exactly what's happening.
But if we write a equals 10 and another line of code B will stand.
We might expect B to point to a different object in memory it's should be a different object but in
fact what ends up happening is that B references the same object in memory.
Python did that automatically for us.
And the same thing if you look at a string as one equals halo as two equals.
Hello.
Well we end up with both as one and as two pointing to the same string again.
Python's memory manager decides to automatically reuse these memory references.
Well we'll take a look at that very soon to see why that's happening.
But the question here I want to answer is is it even safe and.
Well the answer is yes because these objects are immutable.
So even though a and b and as one and two are both shared references.
If we modify s to or we modify B.
The only way to modify the value that those variables are pointing to is by changing their memory address
reference.
And so by doing so we would leave a as one long.
So yes it's actually quite safe to do that.
And Python actually uses that in order to do a few optimizations and we'll talk about when we get to
Python optimizations
now when working with mutable objects.
You have to be a little more careful.
Right.
So let's say we create a shared reference.
So a is a pointer to this object in memory.
One two three the list that some a memory address.
And we said be equal to 8.
Again remember this creates a shared reference so B points to the same object as a.
Now we have to be careful because if we modify B let's say we append 100 to B.
Well we're going to append 100 to this object here.
That happens to be the same one that is pointing to.
So once we've modified the state of that object.
Well then a has essentially as a value as a developer we think of as just a list.
Right then its value has changed as well.
Why.
Because it's pointing to the same object in memory.
So with mutable objects the python memory manager will never create shared references because that would
not be safe to do so if we write this equals 1 to 3 and B equals 1 to 3 then we are going to end up
with two different objects in memory.
So we'll have this list that some memory address and B will point to a different list of different memory
address lists are equal.
They both one two three but they're not the same objects.
So let's look at some code and just see in practice how this works.
So let's start with setting up our own shared reference.
So let's say we have a quolls and we'll use a string let's say hello and then we'll set be equal to
a.
So now we can look at the ID of a.
Maybe I'll use the hex version.
I had of ID of a memory address.
And if you look at the memory address of B we'll find that we're actually pointing to the same memory
address.
Right.
So we set up a shared reference by setting be equal to a.
Now we know that Python does that automatically for us if we say a quolls hello and B equals hello then
we can look at the memory address of a.
And we can look at the memory address of B.
And again we see that they are the same.
Now we didn't set up the shared reference the python memory manager did that.
We'll revisit this in a few videos to see why it's doing that.
And when does it actually do this.
It doesn't do that all the time.
But the question that we asked was is the safe to do.
And yes of course because if we wanted to change B and let's say make be equal to the hello world.
Right then if we look at the ID of B.
Now it has changed.
Right.
It used to be this memory address right here and now it has this memory address it has changed but the
memory address of a well when didn't touch that right that stayed the original memory address.
OK.
So a is still Hello.
And B now is.
Hello world.
And that's because a string is immutable so the only way to change the value of b.
Right the perceived value of b is by pointing B to a different string object.
Now that's not quite the same when you're dealing with a mutable object.
So let's use a list which is a mutable object and let's set a shared reference by set and be equal to
play.
Now again the memory address of a and the memory address of B.
All the same right as you can see they're both the same memory address which means again we have a shared
reference.
So if we say B append
100 then we're going to spend 100 to that list.
But it's a.
It's an it's a list that's shared between the variables A and B both A and B are pointing to the same
list.
So the memory addresses of A and B are still the same as before and still equal to each other.
And if we look at the contents of B it's one two three one hundred and eight is going to be the same.
So by modifying be modified a.
And that of course also happens when you pass a list into a function.
Right the function creates a shared reference to that list and can possibly modify your list outside.
Right that you define outside of the function but you passed into it.
So you have to be careful when you're dealing with mutable objects because everything in Python is passed
by reference.
And so you can get unintended side effects.
You can also get intended side effects is that if that's what your function wants to do if you want
to do it in place.
So maybe of the list then this is great right because you can do it in place so you don't have to return
it and reassign it but you can also have unintended consequences.
So lastly one thing I want to look at very quickly is just this concept of the shared reference that
Python does for us automatically right.
We'll look at hecks of idea of a hex of idea of B had the same reference.
Well I just want to show you that we do that with an integer Akos 10 the equals 10.
Then we can look at the memory address of a.
And we can look at the memory address of B.
Ok you can see that they are the same.
So Python this automatic shared reference for us will revisit this.
But one thing I want to point out here is that don't count on it.
It doesn't always happen.
Let's say we say a equals 500 and B equals 500.
Then we can look at the memory address of a again which is that and the memory address of B which is
a different memory address 8 9 1 0 8 8 9 0.
So it doesn't always do it right sometimes it does sometimes it doesn't.
We'll find out very soon when it does and why it does so.
All right.
Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next video.